[MUSIC]
Hi, I'm Drew Bagnell, the chief
technology officer at Aurora Vision.
In the second lecture, I'll give you
a quick introduction to the process of
learning models within model-based
reinforcement learning with
an emphasis on approaches
you might find practical.
Okay, last time we discussed
the key benefits of using a model,
the ability to learn and simulation,
and thus greatly reduce the expense and
time of real-world interaction.
Of course, the key to make that happen
is we need the ability to learn a model.
For the rest of this lecture, we're going
to use as an example the problem of
autonomous helicopter patrol, in this
case what's known as a nose-in funnel.
When we want to learn
a model from observations so
that we can apply optimal control to,
for instance, this given task.
The traditional view, this is known
as system identification is talked in
engineering statistics, is essentially
a supervised learning approach.
We have some way of collecting
data using exploration policy, for
instance for
pilot who controls the helicopter and
induces deviations in those controls
to explore the space of states.
We then take that observed data and
we apply a supervised learning algorithm.
Imagine for instance,
applying linear regression.
Given that supervised learning algorithm
of the data, we're learning a model
here called T hat, which maps states and
actions to next dates.
We take that model.
We take a cost function.
We combine them together using planning or
optimal control synthesis algorithms,
reinforcement learning algorithms,
if you will.
And we output a learn policy, which is
hopefully optimal in the actual world.
In practice what we find is this is
not actually what good engineers do.
Instead, they tend to take a iterative
approach to building the model.
Let's see why.
In this example, we begin by collecting
data from expert demonstration
of this nose-in funnel, and we collect a
variety of examples of it doing this task.
Then we apply the class of optimal
control algorithms we talked
about in the last lecture to
try to generate a policy.
What you find is unfortunately,
it fails pretty spectacularly.
Now, why does this go wrong?
Well fundamentally, the problem of system
identification is really a chicken or
the egg problem.
We really want to learn a model
that's good where the RL algorithm or
optimal control synthesis algorithm,
is likely to visit as it learns a policy.
Unfortunately, if we learn them all
when then planar on lies against it
will almost certainly visit states in the
process where the model was inaccurate.
They were under sampled during
data collection procedure.
And then the RL algorithm can find
any way to exploit that inaccuracy,
just need to learn a policy that doesn't
perform well because the real world
doesn't match the model in those states.
This General problem is sometimes known
as covariate or distributional shift,
and it's really a fundamental problem
whenever we blend statistical learning
with decision making.
The result is both in theory and practice
you can build statistical models that
are dynamics with very low error,
apply a good olptimizer or
RL algorithm to that model and still
get bad performance in the real world.
That's really a bummer.
I find a really useful way to think
about model base reinforcement
learning is as a two-player
game between the optimizer or
RL algorithm, and the model learning and
the world together.
As I learned years ago from Chris Akesson,
the best way to find an in accuracy in
your simulator is to let an RL
algorithm try to exploit it,
the final loophole in your model.
A glitch in The Matrix, if you will.
We thus need approaches
that are more robust and
fundamentally interactive to find
good models and good controllers.
I'll take you through an approach here,
which is fundamentally interactive.
The idea is that we will collect data
from our purported current optimal policy
as well as that exploration
polic I've described before.
We'll get transitions that describe
the way the helicopter goes from a state,
takes an action and
goes to the next state.
We'll aggregate that together with all
the previous transitions that we've had,
again, this is an iterative algorithm.
We'll fit them all, again, I'm showing
your fitting linear regression.
Then we'll hand this off to an optimal
control synthesis approach or a planner or
reinforcement learning algorithm, if you
will, and the result will be a new policy,
a new purported optimal policy.
And then we run this loop again,
collecting data from the new policy,
together mixed with some data
from the exploration policy.
All of those transitions are aggregated
together with everything we've previously
seen before.
We fit them all and
it off to the synthesis,
which hands back up reported new
policy and continue in this loop.
It turns out if you run this loop
,Stefan Roth demonstrated that this kind
of interactive approach,
which turns out too much more closely
match the style used by expert engineers,
works really well in practice and it can
provide stronger theoretical guarantees.
If you learn a low error model across
iterations of interaction using a stable
function approximator, and you generate
policies using a good optimal control
solver, you must achieve good performance.
And put in the contrapositive, to not
get good real world performance using
a No-Regret learning algorithm, the class
of algorithm we're talking about for
learning, a good optimizer against that
all it must be the case that at some
point you failed to build a low
error model of how the world works.
There's lots of details to these
statistical guarantees, but they indicated
that stable learning and on policy model
learning are probably on the right track.
I mentioned briefly this
idea of No-Regret learning.
It's a powerful concept
worth learning about and
it's very useful in any
context which seems game like.
You can simplify it in your head to
the class of algorithms that don't change
the model they returned much, in response
to the small perturbations in their
training data, and which achieve good
performance in the limit of large data.
Okay, we can take that same inverted or
rather nose-in funnel problem
I described before, and
apply this loop we described,
and here's the results.
Will collect the same number of samples
using this data set aggregation approach.
And in this case, we'll be able
to actually solve the problems.
This is interesting.
The only thing that's different
same synthesis algorithm,
same number of samples.
All that's different is we've
collected data in an interactive way,
where we've proposed optimal controllers,
tried them collected more data, and
then rebuild the model.
And the result is we're successfully
able to execute the nose-in funnel.
I thank you for your attention.
And I really hope these lectures
give you a head start on ideas for
applying models and
reinforcement learning in the real world.